These diagrams of nodes and topics and how they're all
connected and are frequently referred to as compute graphs.
Visualizing the compute graph is very useful for understanding what nodes exist,
and how they communicate with one another.
ROS provides a tool called rqt_graph for showing the compute graph of a system.
A moderately complex robot will likely have dozens of nodes,
even more topics and quite a few services.
This is EMBot, a mobile-based demonstration platform developed by electric movement.
As far as robotics platforms go,
this one is relatively simple,
primarily consisting of a lidar unit,
a depth camera and four independently driven omni-directional wheels.
And here's EMBot's compute graph.
It becomes clear pretty quickly why rqt_graph is a handy tool to have around.
It allows you to zoom in and pan around the graph,
as well as choose exactly what information is displayed.
Now that you've been introduced to some of
the fundamental components of ROS' communication architecture,
it's time to get some hands-on experience
with a helpful little simulator called TurtleSim.